# Introduction to cryptography

- The first accounts of secret writing date back to the 5th century BC. W.
- There are two branches of secret writing: <br>
• Steganography: is intended to hide the existence of the message. <br>
• Cryptography: is intended to hide the meaning of the message.
- The process that makes the message incomprehensible is known as encryption, in which the text is “scrambled” according to a protocol that has already been established in advance by the parties — the sender and receiver.
- Steganography has a fundamental weakness — if the messenger is searched and the message discovered, then the contents of the secret communication are immediately revealed.
- The advantage of encryption is that if the enemy intercepts the encrypted message, it will be incomprehensible and its meaning cannot be revealed.
- Initially, cryptography can be divided into two branches: <br>
• Transposition cipher: The letters of the message are simply rearranged, so as to generate a seemingly meaningless series of letters. The transposition makes each letter keep its identity, but changes its position. <br>
• Replacement cipher: Each letter of the text is replaced by a different letter. Substitution causes the letters to change identity, but maintains the position.
- The first case of a transposition cipher document dates from the end of the 5th century BC. C. in ancient Greece, using a tool called the Spartan citale.
- Citale Spartan consists of a wooden stick around which a leather strip is wrapped.
- The first document to use a substitution cipher for military purposes is from the time of Julius Caesar — a general of the Roman Empire.
- Caesar simply replaced each letter in the message with one that was three places ahead in the alphabet. Thus, this cipher became known as Caesar's Cipher.
- In that context, there is the original alphabet, used to write the message; and the cipher alphabet, formed by the letters used in the substitution
- Although Caesar used to shift the letters three positions forward, it is clear that by employing any shift between 1 and 25 positions, it is possible to create 25 different ciphers.
- Definition (Encryption). Traditionally, cryptography is defined as the study of techniques capable of making a message incomprehensible, so that only the legitimate recipient is able to decipher and understand it.
- Definition (Modern Cryptography). Cryptography is the study of mathematical techniques related to aspects of information security, such as confidentiality, data integrity, entity authentication and data origin authentication.
- Domains of modern cryptography: <br>
• Confidentialit: The message must not be available to unauthorized third parties. <br>
• Authenticity: The recipient of a message must be able to verify the origin of the message. No one should be able to send a message pretending to be someone else (data source authentication). <br>
• Integrity: The receiver must be able to verify whether the message has been modified during transmission—accidentally or deliberately. <br>
• Non-repudiation: The sender must not be able to later deny that he sent a message.
- Cryptography came about due to the need to protect important information, especially military information. Today, however, cryptography has a greater impact on civilian activities—such as Internet banking.




