# Introduction to modern symmetric cryptography

- Symmetric cryptography is also known as secret key cryptography.
- This encryption method uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt a message.
- The sender and receiver agree to use a certain key and then share it between them.

## Secure sharing:
- Key sharing needs to be secure, otherwise the entire cryptographic process would be in vain.
- Note that a communication channel is required for sharing the secret key different from the channel used to transmit the encrypted message.
- Thus, one of the great problems of cryptography, known as the key distribution problem, is born.

## Basic scenario:
- In general, a symmetric encryption process can be represented by the following scenario: <br>
• Suppose Alice wants to send a confidential message to Bob. <br>
• Alice knows that the communication channel is not secure, so the message to be sent will be encrypted. <br>
• Alice shares a secret key with Bob. Assume that the key was shared at an earlier point in time.
• The symmetric encryption scheme used by Alice and Bob needs four basic elements: (1) message; (2) key; (3) encryption algorithm, (4) decryption algorithm.

## The key distribution problem: <br>
- Clearly, the big challenge with this method is how to share the secret key securely between the sender and receiver of the message. <br>
• The most natural way to share this key would be to establish communication using another channel deemed secure or a private face-to-face meeting. <br>
• Another way is to make use of a key distribution center, with which users share their secret key.










