# Public key cryptography principles

## Asymmetric encryption
- Public key encryption or asymmetric encryption is a method that uses a key pair, which consists of a private key and a public key.
- Until the 1970s, the only way to encrypt information was through symmetric cryptography.
- To solve the key distribution problem, Diffie and Hellman (1976) introduced the concept of asymmetric cryptography.
- Public key encryption algorithms are very different from symmetric algorithms such as AES or DES.
- Most public key algorithms are based on number theory functions.
- This is quite different from symmetric ciphers, where the goal is generally not to have a compact mathematical description between input and output.
- Although some mathematical structures are often used for small blocks within symmetric ciphers, this does not mean that the whole scheme forms a compact mathematical description.
- Modern symmetric algorithms are safe, fast and widely used. However, there are several limitations associated with symmetric key schemes:
### Key Distribution Problem
• The key must be established between Alice and Bob using a secure channel. <br>
• Sending the key directly through the channel, which would be the most convenient way to transport it, cannot be done.
### Number of Keys
• Even if we solve the key distribution problem, we still need to deal with a very large number of keys. <br>
• If each pair of users needs a separate pair of keys on a network with 𝑛 users, each user needs to store 𝒏 − 𝟏 keys securely.





